# Milestone Reviews

I've chosen to use a software called jrnl to keep a record of my thoughts and learning process for this course.  
It's a lot easier than using the website i've kept for the previous years of work. Because of the effort involved in going to the site and then making a post about stuff everytime, it was never at the front of my mind and i'd always forget to do it.  
With jrnl, it's a command line interface that just lets my type out my thoughts easily and anywhere. I could even do it in the terminal in VSCode if i wanted to. Since I use linux, terminal is a daily tool and has a nice spot right on my dock. All i have to do is type `jrnl` and start writing, then press enter to save. It compiles all my entries with a timestamp into one file.  
I'll seperate the entries by dates and sort them into markdown files to paste in here for each milestone as required.

## Milestone 1
[2022-02-21 16:45] thinking about the basis for my website. will be nice doing something completely different from online stores which we have always done in previous years classes

[2022-03-12 13:44] its clear that by just trying to make new pages with react that ill need to do a lot of learning in regards to how exactly to make div elements like sit in certain places on the page, making columns and containers for parts of the site and all that. its so easy in plain css/html but react is an entirely different beast. i know it like goes on about how its supposed to be easy and all that but even from a background that knows how to do web design, this is hard to pick up. theres a lot of complicated parts of the project. its like combining programming with web design i guess and over the past few years i've come to get really done with coding on account of how frustrated its made me.

[2022-03-12 15:45] the token system confuses me a little.  
not really sure how exactly that will work right now. so its difficult to develop te crud matrix without really going far into what that feature would behave like, and also whats possible to make it do within the realm of my knowledge about implementing it.

[2022-03-23 12:44] i havent really done too much work on this in my spare time but rather pushing through it during class and a little bit after.  
its really still kinda hard to wrap my head around what an api actually *is* for some reason. like the term is used so often to do with web related things that it seems so vague to me. my understanding of what the api is within my project here is that its something that maps out the paths of the website, ie URLs, and sends information to and from the database by interacting with stuff on the different web pages. so basically like the gears that make the website and database do stuff and interact with each other?

[2022-03-23 12:46] anyway ive been using the code from this tutorial i found online but its related to a different thing so obvs ive had to change it a bit for my use.  
its working so far which is honestly a miracle considering my track record with trying to use code ive found online to make it work. i havent tested all the functions yet but adding a user works as a start so that looks promising for the rest of it. im still kinda unclear on how it actually links up with the elements of the website, but that was always the case that i never really understood it properly, just accepted that oh okay this works now. so after ensuring this works all correctly the only thing id have left to do is the info report which looks like a giant assssssss theres so much information and sections i have to cover. nightmarish. theres nothing i cannot stand more than business fluffery.

[2022-03-24 10:45] in developing the API ive realized that i need a lot more functionality from the way my database architecture is structured.  
it was originally developed using a tutorial for a little one page database that displayed a list of people on a page and did nothing else but edit add delete. im going to need a lot more interactivity with my db schemas than that, so will have to eventually refactor the way its written completely. i have some other examples from previous work that i can use and shape it to my requirements for this project, but it is still going to a be a big mission to undertake.

[2022-03-24 10:48] oops didnt meant to save that entry just yet.  
i think the importance of this is that when looking at tutorials, instead of going along with it just to get something working, you need to look ahead and find one that is flexible for expanding and reuse. but also at the time i had like zero understanding of react like even now i kinda know a bit more after making the api stuff, its still really complex in my head. but yeah its difficult to look at and see what exactly its all doing. anyway thats all my entries for this milestone

## Milestone 2


[2022-05-06 12:25] ive been trying to work on the evaluation milestone but its been difficult so far.  
as of writing this entry, i have tried about 5 different tutorials, each one didnt work properly. despite copying in the code snippets and following the instructions to the letter. also they were all quite different in describing how to actually set up angular within your project. even trying to use postman for the api testing failed so not sure what is going on there. anyway, regardless of that my task is to compare react and angular basically. seems easier than what some of the other class members have chosen as mean stack and mern stack are the same just with a different front end. so i should keep that in mind to focus on rather than getting frustrated by the difficulties

[2022-05-19 02:37] im super behind right now cause of all the problems ive been constantly fighting while trying to learn different stacks.  
i dont know how its so easy for everyone else in the class. i have barely got one functioning stack. the mean one which had 43493 problems is okay for now but still have no idea how to even figure out the rest of the requirements. the mern stack, i had to spend a lotttt of time completely redoing it because the way it was originally written was not great in doing something beyond a basic one page app. i also hate this style of like learning where youre desperately tacking all sorts of tutorials together and hoping that itll work for what you want to do. ive had to take online stores and reformat everything into what i hope will by a system that works for this project, but its so incredibly frustrating, and especially when you get errors that you dont know how to fix. this makes me miserable. its 2.30am on the night before my milestone is due at midday and i havent written any of the documentation at all because ive been so busy just trying to make it work, yet it still isnt even anywhere near what i need for the project. this is just going to be a really shit time

## Milestone 3

[2022-06-22 20:08] so for once i actually enjoyed writing up documentation for a milestone, the essay part of this project was enjoyable i guess because i wrote it about something that was interesting.  
as for working on my actual project, ive spent about a week looking through the code and trying to implement stuff but nothing really works. its so frustrating still because i feel like its just wasting so much time. like literal days and nights ive filled with just trying to fix things,trying to add things, and failed code. i really did not enjoy working with web frameworks and 100% prefer to stick with plain html and css because i can make far superior simple websites without having to work with such complicated code that gives me so many problems all the time. i feel mentally drained from my experiences with this project. there was a lot of problematic areas across my project that i simply could not figure out what to do with or how to implement properly and i ended up pulling my hair out after finishing working most nights. if this will be what i experience while having an actual job in web development, then i would prefer to stay far away from it.
i feel disappointed that I could not get even some basic requirements programmed into this website. There are just a lot of tiny little annoyances and you can just spend hours and hours researching and trying and you still can't find anything to make it work. Trawling over code day in and day out is just not ideal.
